A middle ear infection is
caused by swelling in the
tube between the middle ear
and the throat
called the Eustachian tube.
The swelling traps fluid
in the middle ear,
allowing bacteria to grow
and cause infection.
Ear tubes may be recommended
for a child with many ear infections.
The plastic tubes are tiny and soft.
They let air into the middle ear
while draining fluid out,
which helps to reduce infections.
A surgeon places the tubes
using a microscope.
A small cut is made in the eardrum
and fluid drains out
from the middle ear.
The tube is put in the eardrum hole.
About an hour after the surgery,
your child can go home.
The tubes stay in place
without stitches
and most are slowly pushed
out of the eardrums naturally,
falling out of the ears
6 to 12 months after surgery.